# Nitrogen-fixation
Functional Single-Cell Approach to Probing Nitrogen-Fixing Bacteria in Soil Communities by Resonance Raman Spectroscopy with 15N2 Labeling

Nitrogen (N) fixation is the conversion of inert nitrogen gas (N2) to bioavailable N essential for all forms of life. N2-fixing microorganisms (diazotrophs), which play a key role in global N cycling, remain largely obscure because a large majority are uncultured. Direct probing of active diazotrophs in the environment is still a major challenge. Herein, a novel cultureindependent single-cell approach combining resonance Raman (RR) spectroscopy with 15N2 stable isotope probing (SIP) was developed to discern N2-fixing bacteria in a complex soil community. Strong RR signals of cytochrome c (Cyt c, frequently present in diverse N2-fixing bacteria), along with a marked 15N2-induced Cyt c band shift, generated a highly distinguishable biomarker for N2 fixation. 15N2-induced shift was consistent well with 15N abundance in cell determined by isotope ratio mass spectroscopy. By applying this biomarker and Raman imaging, N2-fixing bacteria in both artificial and complex soil communities were discerned and imaged at the single−cell level. The linear band shift of Cyt c versus 15N2 percentage allowed quantification of N2 fixation extent of diverse soil bacteria. This single-cell approach will advance the exploration of hitherto uncultured diazotrophs in diverse ecosystems.
This project is a backup file associated with the paper published.
